I like make sure to zoom in what is up
guys karma medic here and welcome back
to another dose I'm joined again by
Kenji in this video we're gonna be
covering the second question from our
MMI series in this video we want to
cover why did you choose this medical
school or why are you coming to this
University okay so there's a lot of
points to go through for this question
but one of the important things that I
think you should know is the teaching
style of the University so in the UK if
you don't know medical schools are
basically split into two different camps
one is the traditional style of learning
which is where you either do one or two
years of lectures and then you go on to
do your clinical years where you're in
the hospital or GP for more and more
time as the years progressed the other
type of learning is PBL or CBL which
sounds for a problem based learning or
case based learning and it's where
students mostly have to do independent
learning they go by themselves and do a
lot of research and then come back to
the classroom and disseminate that
information so you definitely want to
know which one your university does and
it's very important to get that right
it's like the minimum you can do to know
how it is you're gonna be learning over
the next five years and you want to make
sure that that teaching style is
relevant for you yeah right so you
definitely should like why do you like
this particular type of style so why do
you like from this learning why do you
like lecture based learning problems
based on you could say like I like the
way you can kind of specify your
learning into something you know if you
find something really interesting you
can go into a bit more depth you know
that as well yeah you could say that I
enjoy teaching I like discussing my you
know my friends I like teaching them as
well that's something that feelings as
well yeah I knew that I definitely would
not like case-based learning and so I
talked about all the pros of traditional
learning or didactic learning and yeah
obviously talked about how I really
liked being taught to taking that
information by myself and then re
explaining in my own words making more
notes and things like that
yeah so yeah and like it's one of the
problems with cases learning as well as
that you all have different information
whereas in lectures you're all given the
exact same information and you're all at
the same level yeah so you say well yeah
and one thing you can also say is about
the university of being both the
research so for example at Kings it's a
Roscoe its Ross group University and one
of the massive
the King stars has produced really high
quality research yeah so in preparation
for the interview I actually memorized
like one or two things I mean university
is really done except the Kings I think
it was like being involved in the
discovery of DNA yeah so we're really
cool just to show them that actually you
do know what's going on University you
didn't what type of researchers you know
being undertaken the university yeah
that definitely file you a few brownie
points mm-hmm actually I did something
similar I memorized the name of a couple
of researchers that I was interested in
what they were doing research on and I
brought that up in this question saying
that you know this is something similar
to the research I've done in the past
and I would love to continue that
research and your University yeah and
also like notable alumni and alumnae you
thought were really interesting any work
they did that you could you know you
could follow up on I think Joseph Lister
or the course of Medicine as you know
you can be on placement for a lot of
your years and that's actually where
you're gonna spend the majority of your
time over the course so you want to know
a decent amount about those placements
for example in Bristol they would assign
you to I believe it was seven different
hospitals across the whole of England so
you were really gonna get exposed to a
wide range of different types of
hospitals ethnic diversity
populations things like that sounds
gonna be very useful there for teens
both me and Kennedy talked about how
it's an extremely cultural and multi
cultural
so both me and you talked about how
Kings was in central London and so all
the hospitals were gonna be very diverse
and have a multicultural set of patients
in them they're also very very large
there's gonna be lots of patients to see
and learn from different diseases as
well those different teas coming around
from around the world yeah didn't face
demographic reading yeah yeah so that's
something really important to know your
placements you know what the hospitals
are that are affiliated with your
University and why you like them why
they're a good fit for you one of the
things that is really important to know
is the different types of support
systems so you talk about having like
personal tutors and why you think that's
really beneficial
any other kind of welfare supports so
like financial welfare support mental
and welfare support yeah I think really
as important to know like when you do
come to University how you will be
supported if you do need it
yes everyone everyone does you know
sometimes need for their support
everybody couple some point yeah
definitely and yet having posted true so
I think for me festas been amazing yeah
that's something what any dimension of
it yeah
Kings for example in recent years has
made a strong push towards improving
mental health and so I remember at the
beginning of last year they gave us a
huge talk about how much support there
is for mental health issues and if
you're you know if you're struggling
financially emotionally mentally
anything like that you can go talk to
someone there are those infrastructures
in place so you know everyone's gonna
need that at some point in their
university career so it's good to know
that that's around and even like you
know when you do come a doctor you want
to know like what's the boys available
in hospital so always three does apply
to mentally now is young one of them
that the massive points so something
that was really important for me when I
was applying to you to medical schools
was that I would be able to do the
dissections myself so I know some
medical schools do pro section some
other medical schools have Holograms and
like software based dissection which I
thought was not cool for me I didn't
want that I want to have a cadaver that
I would be able to cut into that I would
be able to learn from it and that was
something that I was really really
looking for one of my friends is at
Plymouth and he does dissection through
like holographic learning they have a
really high-tech facility where you know
that you have like a holographic image
of a body that you can open and cut into
and everything but I just don't think
it's the same and even he tells me that
he doesn't learn as well through that
and he learns most of its Anatomy
through books yeah but I consider being
able to kind of get over one of the
biggest privileges of attending Kings
there's something very important for me
me too I mean also work one other point
you could mention is just to show your
personality and say I want to go to
London because I support Arsenal
Tottenham you know web team is for say
something like that is around the local
area you know you really reporter to
enjoy yes just how did you have it if
that's not see something different yeah
I'm going to say why you actually want
to live in a city see what they say yeah
that's a good point and like especially
for international students as well like
I was coming from Canada so I also
wanted to justify why I was coming to
the UK yeah I could go study in one of
many cities yeah basically London I was
good fit for me cuz I enjoy big cities I
enjoyed all the diversity and culture
and everything yeah it's all about how
matches your personality so it's a very
social person I love meeting different
people
I love being musically from different
backgrounds and cultures and that's why
I London is so amazing for me or
whatever reason you have yeah
speaking about London and meeting people
one of the things that I really hit hard
on for Kings was that it's such a huge
medical school oh yeah it's I think the
biggest medical school size in Europe so
that was very important for me because
like him said you know we're very social
people I love meeting people I love
going out there you know experiencing
new things so having a big university a
big class size was very important to me
I didn't want to go somewhere like
Cambridge or Oxford where there's like a
smaller class size smaller tutorials
even one-on-one teaching definitely yeah
I wanted to be surrounded by as many
people as possible yeah that's a good
point actually and also just having five
different campuses as well I love how
you pinion and you walk in between
campuses you can see the two cities yeah
and you can meet people you know from
across different campuses yeah we meet
people from strand and Waterloo so you
know you meet people from everywhere
and aside from your academics you can
also mentioned that you love sports you
love societies and so in Berman we had
something called med sock which like the
Medical Society
yeah in Kings we have MSA which is
Medical Students Association so you guys
talk about that you know that you really
want to play football and there's a
really you know like jiggity has the
best football team or whether you Katy
people are hardcore sports guys mention
yeah I'd want to play school and I'd
love to you know to be positive to you
well you know you don't be part of Harry
Potter's society or whatever whatever it
is yeah and then yeah just I guess being
part aside is a huge part of university
lifestyle and you guys talk about how
you want to add to the university and
you know bring your own character and
bring your own you know success as well
definitely yeah or there is a know that
there is no society Baylor's mentioned
that I'd love to start a society there's
all my friends in my last uni started
societies you can always say that you
want to start this society even though
you don't want to I mean you guys can
exaggerate the truth a little bit a tiny
bit yeah
okay so long story short basically you
want to say as many unique things about
that University as possible you can
always go for the generic ones but you
know so I'm going to stick with the
interviewer and if you talk about your
past your experiences your
extracurriculars how those fit in with
the university how much is your
personality that's gonna be something
that's really important and it's gonna
hit home with them so that's it for this
video guys thank you so much for
watching I hope you guys found these
tips useful if you want to check out
Kenji's channel don't forget to visit
him on youtube
kenji Tomita blogs out follow us on
social media Instagram snapchat Facebook
everything
you